.TH _HSH 1.0 "2 November 2021" "1.0" "Simple shell (hsh) man page"
.SH NAME
.hsh
- a simple command interpreter (shell).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hsh [command_file [argument ...]]
.br
.B hsh [command_name [argument ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The simple shell project is an end of trimester project focusing on covering the essential parts of the C programming language and Linux essential parts. 
The simple shell runs simple commands with and without arguments, looks for commands in the PATH env variable, has some of the real shell essential built-ins such as the exit, env...
.SH Path Search
When locating a command, the shell first looks to see if it has a shell function by that name.  Then it looks for a builtin command by that name.  If a builtin command is not found, the command names containing a slash are executed without performing any searches, of the simple shell searches each entry in the PATH env variable to find the executable file of the desired command.
.SH Builtins
This section covers the shell builtins that we worked on recreating.
.br
.IP env
It prints the current environment, which is a list of strings of the format (name=value). Each of these strings are displayed in a separate line.
.IP exit
It causes normal process termination.
.IP help
It display the man page of a given command.
.IP history
It displays the history list, one command by line, preceded with line numbers (starting at 0).
.SH Command Exit Status
Each command has an exit status that might influence the behaviour of other commands. The usual case is that on success (or normal behavior), a command exits with zero, and on failure (or false) with non-zero. The builtin commans return exit codes.
.SH EXIT STATUS
In case of an error inside the simple shell, it'll exit with a non-zero status. Otherwise, it'll execute what it's expected to do and exit with success, with a status of the value of 0.
.br
.B PATH
 The default search path for executables.
.br
.B PWD
 The logical value of the current working directory.
.br
.B OLDPWD
 The previous logical value of the current working directory.
.br
.B PPID
 The process ID of the parent process of the shell.
.br
.SH EXAMPLE
You can use the shell in 2 ways, either it's an interactive mode or a non-interactive mode:
.br
.B Interactive mode
- launch the simple shell by typing ./hsh then you get a prompt and you start working like in normal shell.
.br
.B Non-interactive mode
- by piping to the simple shell the command you wanne execute. example: /bin/ls | ./hsh
.br
.SH AUTHOR
.B takele merga.
